I wrote a letter to all of humanity on behalf of art, imploring a society seemingly revolving around STEM not to forget about art.  for my Sophomore Humanities class. Repetitive sentences strung together by empty, vague words like “feeling” and “emotion” filled my first draft—not to mention, I was lying through my teeth. 

Art wasn’t important to me, at least not in comparison to math or computer science. Art was just pretty; it had no greater purpose. My STEM superiority complex was hardly surprising in my Sophomore Humanities class since my high school is not only science oriented, but my Chinese-American community is as well. 

Then I was introduced to Basquiat’s colors, which shifted from a random hodgepodge of words and figures to a statement on the complex identity of a Black man in America. Orwell’s 1984 became more than another dystopian novel; it served as a catalyst to discussions about my parents’ lives under communist rule and compelled me to reflect on our present-day governments--I learned how to analyze art. I came to appreciate how our trials and tribulations are all intimately documented from a multitude of perspectives and lenses through art. This appreciation moved me to advocate for ethnic studies and literature in my school district.

Art’s way of reflecting humanity reminds me of engineering’s purpose: to make life better for the general public. Technology is growing smarter and it’s doing it fast; we stop to ponder far too late how these new innovations will ultimately affect people. 

Will CRISPR gene editing bring us one step closer to Huxley’s World State? Will police facial recognition only perpetuate the injustice people of color face that Kendrick Lamar raps about? 

Appreciating art has developed a little voice in my head that prompts me to take a step back, to zoom out, no matter how adrenaline inducing a new innovation is. Through the questions art poses, it keeps STEM and engineering ethical beyond just an engineering ethics course. As an aspiring engineer, I want to push the envelope but to do so responsibly. 

  


